>>> THE UNITED STATES IS
INVOLVED IN ANOTHER WAR IN THE
MIDDLE EAST, THIS TIME IN
IRAN.
BUT WHY AND WHAT IS THE END
GAME REMAINS AN OPEN QUESTION.
>>> THE INDIANA GRADUATE
WORKERS COALITION WANTS I.U.
TO BECOME A SANCTUARY
UNIVERSITY TO PROTECT
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS FROM
FEDERAL IMMIGRATION AGENTS.
>>> WE'LL TALK TO THE EDITOR
OF THE INDIANA CAPITAL
CHRONICLE ABOUT THE INDIANA
GENERAL ASSEMBLY'S LEGISLATIVE
SESSION THAT WRAPPED UP LAST
WEEK.
WE'LL HAVE THESE STORIES AND
MORE COMING UP NEXT ON
"INDIANA NEWSDESK."
>> "INDIANA NEWSDESK" IS MADE
POSSIBLE IN PART BY:
>>> WELCOME TO "INDIANA
NEWSDESK."
I'M JOE HREN.
WELL, LAST WEEKEND U.S. AND
ISRAELI FORCES BOMBARDED IRAN
WITH IRE STRIKES.
THE NEW WAR -- AIRSTRIKES.
THE NEW WAR IS PROMPTING
ECONOMIC CONCERNS, MOSTLY OVER
THE PRICE OF OIL.
MEANWHILE SOME IRANIANS ARE
EXCITEDLY HOPING FOR CHANGE IN
LEADERSHIP AFTER THE COUNTRY'S
SUPREME LEADER WAS KILLED.
AUBREY WRIGHT HAS MORE DETAILS
ON HOW THE WAR COULD AFFECT
PEOPLE IN INDIANA.
>>> MOST HOOSIERS WILL SEE
PRICES GO UP, AS THE WAR
CONTINUES.
IT'S ALREADY DRIVING UP GAS
PRICES, AND IT'S GOING TO COST
PRODUCERS MORE TO TRANSPORT
GOODS AND FOOD.
>> SO PEOPLE ARE GOING TO FEEL
THE PRICE HIKE NOT ONLY AT THE
PUMP, BUT ALSO IN SUPERMARKETS
AS WELL.
>> HE SAYS IT'S UNCLEAR
EXACTLY HOW LONG A WAR COULD
LAST, BUT IRAN'S MILITARY
SEEMS TO SIGNAL THAT IT'S
WILLING TO CONTINUE FIGHTING.
>> THE QUESTION HERE IS, WHAT
ARE THE ULTIMATE OBJECTIVES
THAT THE UNITED STATES WANTS
TO PURSUE?
DOES IT WANT TO JUST
NEUTRALIZE IRAN'S MILITARY
CAPABILITIES OR DOES IT WANT
TO UNDERTAKE REGIME CHANGE?
THOSE ARE VASTLY DIFFERENT
PROJECTS.
>> THE U.S. MILITARY HAS
DEPLOYED MORE THAN 50,000
SOLDIERS TO THE REGION.
AT THE SAME TIME, AMERICANS
AND MEMBERS OF CONGRESS ARE
GROWING SKEPTICAL OF ANOTHER
WAR.
BUT AN IRANIAN LIVING IN
BLOOMINGTON SAYS THAT'S A
ONE-DIMENSIONAL WAY OF VIEWING
THE SITUATION.
>> THIS IS A VERY HAPPY DAY
FOR MANY, MANY IRANIANS.
THAT'S WHY YOU SEE THEM CHANT
OR DANCE OR, YOU KNOW, MARCH
THESE DAYS.
>> IN JANUARY, IRANIAN
SECURITY FORCES KILLED
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE PROTESTING
THE ISLAMIC REGIME.
CITIZENS ALSO ENDURED INTERNET
SHUTDOWNS AND BLACKOUTS,
MAKING IT DIFFICULT FOR THOSE
OUTSIDE THE COUNTRY TO
UNDERSTAND THE EXTENT OF THE
VIOLENCE.
HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS ARE
STILL INVESTIGATING, AND SAY
AS MANY AS 30,000 PEOPLE WERE
KILLED.
HE SAYS IT COMPLETELY CHANGED
HIS OUTLOOK ON MILITARY
OPERATIONS.
>> AFTER SO MANY YEARS OF
TRYING TO BRING ABOUT CHANGE
TO -- YOU KNOW, THROUGH
DIFFERENT CHANNELS, YOU KNOW,
SUPPORTING SO-CALLED MODERATE
OR REFORMISTS POLITICIANS, IN
THE GOVERNMENT, AND PROTESTS
AND CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE
MOVEMENTS AND SO ON.
WHEN YOU ARE FACED WITH THIS
LEVEL OF BRUTALITY, I THINK
ALL OF THOSE CHANNELS ARE
BLOCKED.
>> THE JANUARY PROTESTS CAME
AFTER DECADES OF OPPRESSIVE
AUTHORITARIAN RULE, AND WAR,
UNDER SUPREME LEADER ALI
KHAMENEI.
THE REGIME IS NO LONGER
REFORMABLE.
>> IT'S KILLING PEOPLE BY THE
THOUSANDS, AND THIS IS JUST
NOT A LEGITIMATE GOVERNMENT.
>> HE ENCOURAGES LOCALS TO
REACH OUT TO IRANIANS THAT
THEY KNOW PERSONALLY WITHOUT
PRESUMING THEIR THOUGHTS ON
THE WAR.
FOR "INDIANA NEWSDESK," I'M
AUBREY WRIGHT.
>>> ON OUR NOON EDITION
PROGRAM ON WFIU TODAY, WE
TALKED ABOUT THE ONGOING
CONFLICT IN IRAN, ONE OF OUR
GUESTS WAS A Ph.D. STUDENT
IN MATHEMATICS AT I.U. FROM
IRAN, WHO HAS BEEN IN THE
STATES FOR TWO YEARS.
SHE SPOKE ABOUT WHAT SHE'S
FEELING WITH HER HOME COUNTRY,
WHERE HER FAMILY STILL IS
UNDER ATTACK.
>> BEFORE THIS BROADCAST, MY
MOM CALLED ME AND SHE SAID
PROBABLY YOU HEARD THAT TWO
BOMBING HAPPENED THIS MORNING
IN OUR CITY.
AND I JUST WANTED TO LET YOU
KNOW WE ARE OKAY.
DON'T BE WORRIED.
SO IT JUST A PIECE OF WHAT'S
GOING ON THESE DAYS, AND AS I
SAID, IT'S REALLY A MIXTURE
BECAUSE, LIKE, WHAT BABEK
SAID, WE ALSO HAVE HOPE OF
REGIME CHANGE, OF BETTER
FUTURE, AND ALL THE PEOPLE WHO
HAVE DIED, ESPECIALLY MY
PEERS, YOUNG PEOPLE LIKE ME
THAT JUST ASKED NORMAL LIFE,
LIKE YOU AND I, NOTHING MORE
THAN THAT.
AND INSTEAD OF WHAT WE'RE
DEMANDING, WHICH IS COMPLETELY
BASED ON THE HUMAN RIGHTS AND
THEY HAD TO ASK THAT, THEY
RECEIVED SHOTGUN.
SO, YEAH, IT'S REALLY MIX OF
EVERYTHING.
>> YOU CAN LISTEN TO TODAY'S
NOON EDITION PROGRAM AND PAST
PROGRAMS ON OUR WEBSITE
WTIUNEWS.ORG UNDER THE NOON
EDITION TAB.
>>> INDIANA UNIVERSITY
CHANCELLOR DAVID REINGOLD
ADDRESSED THE IMPACT OF A
SENATE BILL AT A BLOOMINGTON
FACULTY COUNCIL MEETING ON
TUESDAY AS ELYSE PERRY
REPORTS, BEFORE THE MEETING,
INDIANA'S GRADUATE WORKERS
COALITION PROTESTED ANOTHER
NEW LAW TAKING EFFECT.
>> SENATE BILL 199 DIRECTS THE
INDIANA COMMISSION FOR HIGHER
EDUCATION TO REVIEW DEGREE
PROGRAMS AT STATE COLLEGES
WITH WAGES BELOW THE AVERAGE
OF AN INDIANA HIGH SCHOOL
GRADUATE.
THE BACHELOR'S DEGREE IN MUSIC
AT THE JACOBS SCHOOL OF MUSIC
HAS BEEN POINTED AT AS MEDIA
OUTLETS AS ONE THAT FALLS
BELOW THE STANDARD.
>> I HAVE ALL THE CONFIDENCE
THAT WHEN ONE -- IF ONE WERE
TO ACTUALLY LOOK AT THE
EARNINGS OF GRADUATES FROM THE
JACOBS SCHOOL IN THAT MAJOR,
THAT IT WILL FALL ABOVE
WHATEVER THAT THRESHOLD IS.
>> HE SAYS IF THE DEGREE DOES
NOT MEET THE REQUIREMENT, HE
HAS CONFIDENCE THAT I.U. CAN
WORK WITH THE ICHE TO ENSURE
THE MUSIC PROGRAM IS NOT
IMPACTED.
REINGOLD SPOKE AS MEMBERS OF
THE GRADUATE WORKERS RALLIED
IN THE FOYER OF FRANKLIN HALL
AGAINST 1776.
IT MANDATES THAT SCHOOLS,
HOSPITALS, LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
AND POLICE AND SHERIFF'S
DEPARTMENTS COOPERATE WITH
FEDERAL AGENTS ON IMMIGRATION
ENFORCEMENT.
THE IGWC IS DEMANDING INDIANA
UNIVERSITY TO BECOME A
SANCTUARY CAMPUS TO PROTECT
INTERNATIONALS IF IMMIGRATION
AND CUSTOM ENFORCEMENT
OFFICIALS ARE ON CAMPUS.
>> THE EDUCATIONAL MISSION OF
A UNIVERSITY IS SORT OF LIKE
SET ASIDE FOR A LOT OF
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS AND
WORKERS BECAUSE OF THIS SORT
OF PERSISTENT, LIKE BACK OF
THE HEAD ANXIETY.
THERE ARE PEOPLE WHO HAVE BEEN
NERVOUS TO VISIT THEIR
FAMILIES OVER THE SUMMERS
BECAUSE THEY WEREN'T SURE THEY
WOULD BE ABLE TO ENTER THE
COUNTRY AGAIN.
>> THERE ARE 4,000
INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS AT I.U.
BLOOMINGTON ACCORDING TO THE
IGWC, PRIORITIZING
UNIVERSITY'S EDUCATIONAL
MISSION MEANS STANDING UP FOR
THESE STUDENTS SO THEY CAN
FOCUS ON LEARNING.
>> I. U. HAS SEEMINGLY DONE
VIRTUALLY NOTHING TO OPPOSE
THIS BILL AND I THINK THAT
INDICATES SORT OF LIKE THE
SENSE OF ABANDONMENT.
>> HE SAYS I.U. SHOULD CREATE
SAFE SPACES ON CAMPUS AND
PERHAPS INSTITUTE AN ALERT
SYSTEM FOR IMMIGRATION
ENFORCEMENT ACTIVITY ON
CAMPUS.
FOR "INDIANA NEWSDESK," I'M
ELYSE PERRY.
>>> REINGOLD DID NOT SPEAK ON
THE INDIANA GRADUATE WORKERS
COALITION'S SANCTUARY
UNIVERSITY DEMAND DURING HIS
PRESENTATION TO THE FACULTY.
>>> WE'RE JOINED NOW BY SHELBY
BROWN, FOR HEADLINES FROM
AROUND THE STATE.
>>> HI, SHELBY, WELCOME.
>> THANKS, JOE.
BLOOMINGTON CITY COUNCIL
UNANIMOUSLY APPROVED A
RESOLUTION WEDNESDAY NIGHT
THAT WILL GIVE THE MAYOR'S
OFFICE AND THE BLOOMINGTON'S
CHIEF OF POLICE SIX WEEKS TO
PROVIDE IT WITH BEING -- WITH
A BRIEFING ON THE CITY'S
AUTOMATED LICENSE PLATE READER
PROGRAM.
>>> SEVERAL RESIDENTS
ADVOCATES FOR THE CITY TO END
ITS CONTRACT WITH FLOCK, WHICH
OPERATES LICENSE PLATE READING
CAMERAS.
THEY RAISE CONCERNS OF PRIVACY
VIOLATIONS AND RISKS TO
MARGINALIZED INDIVIDUALS DUE
TO THE POTENTIAL FOR THE
SYSTEM TO BE USED IN
IMMIGRATION ENFORCEMENT.
>> WE EMPATHIZE WITH THE
OBJECTIVES OF MAINTAINING
PUBLIC SAFETY, BUT THE MORE
THAT OUR CITY INVESTS IN DATA
COLLECTION, ALLIES WITH
PROFIT-DRIVEN COMPANIES AND
FAILS TO TAKE A FIRM STAND ON
OUR COMMUNITY'S BASIC RIGHTS,
THE LESS LIKELY OUR IMMIGRANT
COMMUNITY WILL FEEL SAFE TO
UTILIZE POLICE FOR WHEN THEY
THEMSELVES ARE VICTIMS OF A
CRIME.
>> POLICE CHIEF MIKE DIEKHOFF
SAYS FLOCK CAMERAS HAVE BEEN
USED TO SOLVE CRIMES INCLUDING
TWO MURDERS AND A RAPE.
>>> BLOOMINGTON IS PREPARING
FOR A LAW THAT MAKES HOMELESS
CAMPS ON PUBLIC LANDS ILLEGAL.
VIOLATORS FACE FINES UP TO
$500, OR EVEN JAIL TIME.
>> PROPONENTS OF THE NEW LAW
SAY THE THREAT OF A CLASS C
MISDEMEANOR WILL FORCE
UNHOUSED PEOPLE TO SEEK THE
HELP THEY NEED.
CRITICS LIKE BLOOMINGTON MAYOR
KERRY THOMSON SAYS IT WILL
ONLY FURTHER COMPLICATE THE
ISSUE.
>> THE LAST THING WE WANT TO
DO IS ARREST PEOPLE.
WE KNOW WE CAN'T ARREST PEOPLE
OUT OF HOMELESSNESS.
WE KNOW IT WILL CREATE FINES
FOR PEOPLE AND CREATE
SITUATIONS THAT ARE MORE
COMPLICATED.
>> THEY ARE PLANNING TO DOUBLE
DOWN ON THE EXISTING PLANS TO
CURB HOMELESSNESS BEFORE THE
JULY 1st HEADLINE WITH THE
COUNTY JAIL BEING A PLACE OF
LAST RESORT.
THE LAND CAN BE AUTHORIZED FOR
HOMELESS CAMPS SOMETHING THAT
THE CITY HAS EXPLORED BEFORE
BUT DECIDED AGAINST DUE TO THE
COST OF SECURITY AND THE
SUPPORT OF SERVICES.
>> IF YOU HAVE TO PROVIDE THE
SECURITY, IF YOU HAVE TO
PROVIDE THE SUPPORTIVE
SERVICES, ET CETERA, PUTTING
UP A SIMPLE BUILDING, EVEN IF
IT'S ONLY A TEMPORARY ONE TO
GET PEOPLE INSIDE, IT'S NOT
MUCH HARDER.
>> THOMSON SAYS BLOOMINGTON
HAS MORE THAN 100 UNHOUSED AND
UNSHELTERED PEOPLE.
FOR "INDIANA NEWSDESK," I'M
CLAYTON BAUMGARTH.
>>> WE'LL HAVE MORE ON HOW
BLOOMINGTON OFFICIALS AND
RESIDENTS ARE PLANNING TO DEAL
WITH THE BILL NEXT WEEK.
>>> THE ACLU OF INDIANA HAS
FILED TWO LAWSUITS AGAINST
BALL STATE UNIVERSITY FOR
ALLEGEDLY VIOLATING STUDENTS'
RIGHT TO FREE SPEECH.
BOTH SUITS FOCUS ON STUDENT
PROTESTERS WHO.
ENTERED THE UNIVERSITY'S
PRESIDENT'S OFFICE IN NOVEMBER
TO OBJECT TO THE SCHOOL'S
FINANCIAL TIES TO ISRAEL.
ONE STUDENT WAS SUSPENDED FROM
THE UNIVERSITY FOR A SEMESTER
AND FILED A SEPARATE SUIT.
>> FOR ALL INTENTS AND
PURPOSES, THIS POLICY REALLY
DOES BAN A GIGANTIC AMOUNT OF
SPEECH ON CAMPUS.
>> UNIVERSITY POLICY BANS
STUDENTS FROM PROTESTING
WITHIN 50 FEET OF MOST CAMPUS
BUILDINGS.
>>> VALPARAISO UNIVERSITY HAS
REJECTED A STUDENT'S REQUEST
TO REESTABLISH A TURNING POINT
U.S.A. CHAPTER, AS BEING TOO
PARTISAN.
IT COMES WHEN THE STATE
LEADERS ARE WORKING WITH
TURNING POINT U.S.A. TO EXPAND
ITS PRESENCE IN EVERY COLLEGE
AND HIGH SCHOOL IN THE STATE.
>> THE COLLEGE IS SUPPOSED TO
BE A MARKETPLACE OF IDEAS.
IT'S NOT SUPPOSED TO BE, YOU
KNOW, ONE ENTITY THAT DECIDES
HOW PEOPLE ARE GOING TO THINK
AND WHAT PEOPLE ARE GOING TO
TALK ABOUT.
>> TURNING POINT U.S.A.
IDENTIFIES AS NONPARTISAN, BUT
ADVOCATES CONSERVATIVE IDEALS
OF LIMITED GOVERNMENT AND FREE
MARKET.
>>> VOLUNTEERS SPENT PART OF
LAST WEEKEND CLEANING UP
DEBRIS ON THE WEST SIDE OF
BLOOMINGTON, AFTER LAST
MONTH'S TORNADO.
THEY GATHERED IN THE MORNING
AT VAN BUREN COMMUNITY CENTER
BEFORE HEADING OUT IN THE
FIELDSTONE AND STONE CHASE
NEIGHBORHOODS WHICH WERE AMONG
THE AREA HIT BY THE TORNADO.
>> IT MEANS EVERYTHING, HAVING
PEOPLE COME TOGETHER DURING
THIS TIME.
IT'S JUST A LOT THAT GOES INTO
IT AND A LOT OVERWHELMS YOU
AND TO HAVE PEOPLE JUST COME
AND HELP AND ORGANIZE THINGS
AND GET THINGS GOING, IT MEANS
EVERYTHING.
>> THE EF-2 TORNADO WAS ON THE
GROUND FOR ALMOST 4 MILES
STARTING WEST OF THE AIRPORT
AND LIFTING JUST BEFORE I-69.
>>> THE SEVEN OAKS CLASSICAL
SCHOOL IS PARTNERING WITH
SCHOOLS IN SURROUNDING AREAS
TO CREATE A NEW ATHLETIC
CONFERENCE.
TRIRIVERS OF BEGIN COMPETITION
IN THE NEXT SCHOOL YEAR.
ALL SCHOOLS WILL BE WITHIN
HOUR OF ONE ANOTHER.
SEVEN OAKS CURRENTLY PLAYS
SCHOOLS TWO HOURS AWAY.
>> THEY ARE EXCITED ABOUT THE
CONVENIENCE AND THEIR
FAMILIES, GRANDMA AND THEIR
AUNTS AND THEIR FRIENDS CAN
ALL ATTEND GAMES THAT ARE A
LITTLE BIT CLOSER.
>> OTHER SCHOOLS WILL BE
LIGHTHOUSE CHRISTIAN ACADEMY
IN BLOOMINGTON, MOORSVILLE
CHRISTIAN ACADEMY AND MORE.
AND THEY WILL COMPETE IN
SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS
COUNTRY AND BASKETBALL.
>> SOUNDS LIKE A GREAT
OPPORTUNITY FOR THEM.
>> THANKS, SHELBY.
>>> COMING UP NEXT ON "INDIANA
NEWSDESK," WE TAKE A LOOK BACK
AT THE INDIANA GENERAL
ASSEMBLY'S LEGISLATIVE SESSION
THAT RECENTLY WRAPPED UP.
>>> AND WE VISIT A PIZZA CHAIN
IN INDIANA THAT ALL HOOSIERS
KNOW FOR ITS UNIQUE STYLE.
THESE STORIES AND MORE RIGHT
HERE ON "INDIANA NEWSDESK."
>>> WELCOME BACK TO "INDIANA
NEWSDESK."
INDIANA GOVERNOR MIKE BRAUN
GIVES HIMSELF A B PLUS FOR
THIS YEAR'S LEGISLATIVE
SESSION, SAYING THAT HIS
ADMINISTRATION SUCCESSFULLY
TACKLED ISSUES OF AFFORDABLE
AND GOVERNMENT EFFICIENCY.
DESPITE AN EARLY ROCKY START
TO THIS YEAR'S LEGISLATIVE
SESSION WITH THE FAILED
REDISTRICTING VOTE, BRAUN
PRESENTED A PICTURE OF SUCCESS
MARKED BY A GOOD WORKING
RELATIONSHIP WITH STATE
LAWMAKERS.
HE SAYS OUT OF 58 BILLS THAT
WERE A PRIORITY FOR HIS
OFFICE, 51 WERE PASSED.
>> VERY MUCH OPEN
CONVERSATION, TRANSPARENT.
WE WANT TO WORK TOGETHER.
IF YOU LOOK AT THESE RESULTS,
THAT'S PRETTY IMPRESSIVE.
>> WHILE BRAUN HERALDED THE
SESSION'S WORK AROUND
AFFORDABILITY ISSUES,
DEMOCRATS SAY THIS YEAR'S
BILLS STILL DON'T ADDRESS
HOOSIERS EVERYDAY CONCERNS.
WE'RE JOINED NOW BY NICKY
KELLY, THE EDITOR OF THE
INDIANA CAPITAL CHRONICLE, WHO
COVERS THE STATEHOUSE.
WELCOME BACK TO THE SHOW,
NICKY.
SO WHAT ARE SOME OF THE BIG
WINS FOR REPUBLICANS THIS
SESSION?
>> WELL, I THINK THEY ARE
OBVIOUSLY GOING TO CLAIM THE
AFFORDABILITY WINS, BOTH IN AN
ELECTRIC UTILITY BILL AND A
BILL ON HOUSING REGULATIONS,
THAT THEY HOPE WILL BRING DOWN
THE COSTS OF HOUSING.
BUT THOSE ALSO HAVE A BIG
ASTERISK, BECAUSE, RIGHT, IT
WILL TAKE TIME TO TELL,
ESPECIALLY THE RATE MAKING
PIECE OF THE UTILITY BILL WILL
TAKE YEARS BEFORE WE SEE NEW
RATES USING THOSE PERFORMANCE
METRICS.
>> NOW, THE SESSION STARTED
OFF WITH A BIG LOSS FOR BRAUN,
WHEN SENATE REPUBLICANS
REJECTED REDISTRICTING.
SO WHAT DOES THAT SIGNAL ABOUT
THE PULL BRAUN AND PRESIDENT
TRUMP HAVE OVER THE
LEGISLATORS?
>> I HONESTLY THINK IT'S LESS
ABOUT PRESIDENT TRUMP AND MIKE
BRAUN AND MORE ABOUT THE FACT
THAT THESE ARE MORE LOCAL
RACES, AND A LOT OF THESE
SENATE REPUBLICANS ARE
LONG-TIME COMMUNITY MEMBERS
WHO ARE ENTRENCHED AND THEY
LISTEN TO THEIR CONSTITUENTS.
AND SO THEY WERE HEARING NO
LOCALLY AND THAT'S WHAT THEY
WENT WITH.
>> NOW, YOU WROTE ABOUT LESS
HERALDED BILLS, THAT YOU
THOUGHT WERE IMPORTANT.
WHAT WERE SOME OF THOSE?
>> THERE WERE A FEW OF THEM
THAT ARE GOING TO TRY TO HELP
KIND OF, I WOULD SAY, ON THE
EDGES OF CHILD CARE ISSUES.
AND SO WHETHER IT BE ALLOWING
COMPANIES TO TAKE MORE TAX
CREDITS TO OFFER CHILD CARE OR
ALSO THERE WERE SOME BILLS
THAT ADDRESSED SOME DEPARTMENT
OF CHILD SERVICES
INVESTIGATIONS.
RIGHT NOW MANY ARE SHROUDED IN
SECRECY AND OFTEN THEY LET
MISINFORMATION KIND OF RULE
THE DAY AND THESE BILLS WOULD
ALLOW A LITTLE BIT MORE OF
THAT INFORMATION TO COME OUT.
>> NOW, DEMOCRATS WERE, AGAIN,
UP AGAINST A SUPER MAJORITY IN
BOTH CHAMBERS, BUT WERE THEY
ABLE TO HAVE MUCH INFLUENCE ON
THE SESSION?
>> YEAH, UNFORTUNATELY NOT.
I MEAN, THEY DO THE BEST THEY
CAN.
THEY OFFER AMENDMENTS.
THEY FILE BILLS.
MANY OF THEM ARE NOT ACCEPTED,
AND SOMETIMES WHEN THEY ARE,
LIKE, IT WILL BE A DEMOCRAT
PUSHES A BILL FOR A COUPLE
YEARS AND THEN A REPUBLICAN
WILL FILE IT THE NEXT YEAR AND
THEN IT WILL PASS.
WE'VE ALREADY SEEN SOME
EXAMPLES HERE IN INDIANAPOLIS
WITH THE NEWS THAT BLACK ROCK
IS PART OF A CONGLOMERATE THAT
BOUGHT A.E.S. INDIANA.
THERE WAS A DEMOCRAT BILL TO
BLOCK THAT, BUT SENATE
REPUBLICANS VOTED THEM DOWN.
>> AND WE TALKED ABOUT THE
REDISTRICTING BATTLE.
DO YOU THINK IT WILL HAVE ANY
IMPACT ON THE MIDTERMS?
>> WELL, IT'S CERTAINLY GOING
TO MAKE THE RACES IN THE
SENATE INTERESTING.
I THINK SIX CANDIDATES FROM
SENATE REPUBLICAN CANDIDATES
WENT TO THE WHITE HOUSE, MET
WITH THE PRESIDENT ON
WEDNESDAY.
AND HE HAS ENDORSED, I THINK
FIVE OF THE SIX.
SO THEY ARE CERTAINLY TRYING
TO GET WHO THEY CONSIDER TO BE
MORE PRO TRUMP, MORE
CONSERVATIVE IN THERE AND I
BELIEVE CLEARLY, A FEW OF
THESE RACES WITH INCUMBENTS
WOULD HAVE BEEN -- PROBABLY
WOULDN'T HAVE HAD ANY
COMPETITION AT ALL, MUCH LESS
COMPETITION PUSHED BY THE
PRESIDENT.
>> SO BEFORE WE GO, BRAUN GAVE
HIMSELF A B PLUS, DO YOU THINK
THAT'S VALID?
>> YEAH, UM, I MIGHT LOWER IT
JUST A LITTLE, ONLY BECAUSE I
DON'T THINK HE WAS CLEAR WHAT
REALLY WAS PART OF HIS AGENDA.
THEY NEVER REALLY, LIKE, SAID,
THESE ARE A LIST OF THESE
BILLS THAT ARE OUR BILLS AND
HE JUST SHOUTED OUT A FEW
BILLS DURING THE STATE OF THE
STATE.
SO I THINK SOME OF US WERE
CONFUSED WHAT HIS
ADMINISTRATION WAS TRULY
WORKING ON AND WHAT THEY
WEREN'T.
AT THE END, HAVING SEEN THEIR
LIST, THEY DID DO A LOT OF
WHAT THEIR LIST, WE JUST
DIDN'T KNOW THAT THAT LIST
EXISTED UNTIL NOW.
>> NICKY KELLY, EDITOR OF THE
INDIANA CAPITAL CHRONICLE.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> NO PROBLEM.
>>> WE'RE TAKING A LOOK BACK
AT A STORY WE BROUGHT YOU
ABOUT A PIZZA PLACE JUST ABOUT
EVERY HOOSIER HAS HEARD OF,
WHICH IS PRETTY REMARKABLE,
CONSIDERING MANY LOCATIONS
HAVE NO ADVERTISING BUDGET.
PIZZA KING'S DOT THE CORNERS
OF SMALL TOWNS ALL OVER THE
STATE AND MOST HAVEN'T CHANGED
MUCH OVER THE YEARS.
AS FORMER COLLEAGUE BARBARA
BROSIER REPORTS, THAT'S WHAT
MAKES GENERATIONS OF HOOSIERS
LOYAL TO THEM.
>> YOU MIGHT CALL LARRY
COMMONS A CREATURE OF HABIT.
>> I HAVE BEEN COMING HERE MY
WHOLE LIFE.
>> HE COMES TO THIS PIZZA KING
IN EVANSVILLE AT LEAST THREE
TIMES A WEEK AND HE ALWAYS
ORDERS THE SAME THING.
>> STROMBOLI, MEDIUM WELL
DONE.
>> WE WOULD SAY HIS ENTHUSIASM
FOR THE RESTAURANT IS
UNMATCHED, BUT THERE ARE A LOT
OF HOOSIERS WHO ARE PASSIONATE
ABOUT THIS PIZZA PLACE.
>> IT'S JUST SOMETHING YOU
DON'T GET EVERYWHERE.
SO IT MAKES IT SPECIAL.
>> THE SPECIAL BRAND OF PIZZA
GOT ITS START IN INDIANA IN
1956.
THAT'S WHEN WENDEL SCHWARTZ
AND HIS BROTHER OPENED THE
FIRST RESTAURANT IN
LaFAYETTE.
THEY DEVELOPED THE SIGNATURE
CRUST, SAUCE AND TOPPINGS
PIZZA KING IS STILL KNOWN FOR
TODAY.
>> THE ORIGINAL COMMISSARY WAS
WAS AT THE CORNER OF 52 AND
McCARDY LANE HERE IN
LaFAYETTE INDIANA.
HIS BROTHER AFTER A YEAR OF
BUSINESS DECIDED THAT HE
WANTED A DIFFERENT MODEL.
SO WHAT THEY DID WAS THEY
DIVIDED THE STATE.
WENDEL TOOK THREE-QUARTERS OF
STATE AND THEN HIS BROTHER
ENDED UP GETTING ROUGHLY A
QUARTER OF IT.
>> WENDEL'S BROTHER TOOK THE
EASTERN PORTION OF THE STATE,
THE PIZZA KINGS WHERE YOU CAN
RING THE KING AND ORDER PIZZA
FROM A PHONE AT YOUR TABLE.
THAT COMPANY DECLINED TO DO AN
INTERVIEW FOR THE STORY.
THE LARGER OF THE TWO PIZZA
KINGS, FAMOUSLY FEATURES A
TRAIN IN SOME OF ITS
RESTAURANTS.
>> YOU DELIVER THE DRINKS TO
THE KIDS IN THE BOOTHS AND
THEY CAN OPEN UP THE GLASS AND
GET THEIR DRINKS OUT.
>> THIS WAS TRAUMATICALLY
INCREASING THE REACH AND NOW
YOU FIND DOZENS OF RESTAURANTS
ACROSS STATE, BUT NO TWO OR
QUITE THE SAME.
PIZZA KING ISN'T A FRANCHISE,
BUT HAS WHAT'S CALLED A SUPPLY
AGREEMENT.
>> WE CAN'T TELL YOU HOW TO
RUN YOUR BUSINESS.
THE OWN THING YOU DO IS YOU
BUY SCORE PRODUCTS FROM US.
SO THEN WHAT WILL HAPPEN IS
YOU ARE STILL YOUR OWN BOSS,
ALL RIGHT?
AND YOU GET TO USE ALL THE
PIZZA KING MEMORABILIA, THE
LOGOS, CATCH PHRASES.
AND ALSO, THE RECOGNITION OF
THE PIZZA KING MAN, EVERYBODY
KNOWS WHAT IT IS.
>> PIZZA KINGS GET THEIR
CRUST, TOMATO PASTE, CHEESE
AND SIGNATURE CHOPPED SAUSAGE
AND PEPPERONI FROM THE
CORPORATE COMMISSARY EVERY
WEEK BUT YOU WILL FIND A LOT
OF VARIATIONS ON HOW THE PIZZA
IS PREPARED ACROSS STATE AND
WHAT YOU WILL FIND ON THE MENU
CAN VARY TOO.
AMOURE HAS CHANGED ITS
LOCATION AND THE LOOKS OVER
THE YEAR BUT THE RECIPES
REMAIN THE SAME.
>> CORN MEAL IS ONE THING THAT
WE DO TO PREP THE DOUGHS ON.
I JUST DON'T KNOW THAT THERE'S
MANY OUT THIS DOING IT.
>> THAT FAMILIAR TASTE IS WHAT
KEEPS SO MANY PEOPLE COMING
BACK YEAR AFTER YEAR.
SOME EVEN CALL WANTING PIZZA
SHIPPED ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
>> OUR FRIENDS WHO GRADUATE
AND MOVE AWAY, THE FIRST THING
THEY DO WHEN THEY COME BACK TO
TOWN, THEY COME HERE.
>> IT'S THE SAME BACK DOWN IN
EVANSVILLE WHERE STROMBOLIS
ARE ACTUALLY KING.
THEY ACCOUNT FOR ABOUT 70% OF
THIS RESTAURANT'S BUSINESS.
>> WE ARE PROBABLY STARTING TO
SERVE OUR FOURTH GENERATION
STROMBOLIS TO PEOPLE RIGHT
NOW.
>> BUT PIZZA KING DIDN'T
BECOME SO BELOVED IN INDIANA
BECAUSE OF THE SPECIAL
INGREDIENTS OR THE CONSISTENCY
OF THE PRODUCT.
HOOSIERS LOVE PIZZA KING
BECAUSE IT TASTES LIKE HOME.
>> OUR SON LIVES IN PHOENIX,
ARIZONA, AND WHEN HE COMES IN,
FIRST STOP -- THEY DRIVE HERE.
>> IF YOU START WITH YOUR
GRANDPARENTS AND YOUR PARENTS
HAD IT AND THEN YOU HAVE IT,
AND YOU GO TO PIZZA KING AND
YOUR SON AND DAUGHTER, YOU
FEED THEM THAT, IT HAS NOT RUN
ITS COURSE.
>> FOR "INDIANA NEWSDESK," I'M
BARBARA BROSIER.
>> THE BOGAN FAMILY PURCHASED
THE PIZZA KING IN 2020 AND
OPERATE MORE THAN 60 LOCATIONS
AROUND THE STATE.
>>> INDIANA FOOTBALL COACH
CURT CIGNETTI IS CASHING IN ON
WINNING A NATIONAL
CHAMPIONSHIP.
THE UNIVERSITY ANNOUNCED THIS
WEEK CIGNETTI SIGNED A
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
FOR A NEW EIGHT-YEAR CONTRACT
THAT PAYS HIM $13.2 MILLION
PER SEASON.
IT'S AN INCREASE OF
$1.6 MILLION AND MAKES
CIGNETTI THE SECOND HIGHEST
PAID COLLEGE FOOTBALL COACH,
BEHIND ONLY GEORGIA'S KIRBY
SMART.
THE 64-YEAR-OLD CIGNETTI HAS A
27-2 RECORD IN TWO SEASONS AT
INDIANA, WHERE HE SAYS HE
PLANS ON STAYING UNTIL HE
RETIRES.
>>> WELL, THAT'S THE END OF
THIS PROGRAM, BUT OUR WORK
CONTINUES ONLINE, AS WE COVER
THE NEWS THROUGHOUT THE WEEK
AT WTIUNEWS.ORG.
HAVE A GREAT WEEKEND.
>>> "INDIANA NEWSDESK" IS MADE